java c
Statistical   Case   Studies   2024/25   Semester   2 
Examining   the   relationship   between   insulin   and   c-peptide. 
1 Background 
Deadline:    14   February   16:00
1.1 Lucy Letby In   August   2023   a   nurse   called   Lucy   Letby   who   worked   in   the   neonatal   ward   at   the   Countess   of   Chester Hospital   was   found   guilty   of   seven   counts   of   murder   and   seven   counts   of   attempted   murder   of   infants. In   July   2024   she   was   re-tried   and   found   guilty   of   one   further   count   of   attempted   murder.      She   has   been unsuccessful   in   appealing   both   verdicts.
Since   July   2024,   when   the   reporting   restrictions   on   the   case   were   lifted,   there   has   been   much   public criticism   by   statisticians   of the   way   in   which   statistical   issues   associated   with   the   case   were   presented.
[Optional]   For   more   details   on   the   case   itself,   there   have   been   many   newspaper   articles,   TV   programs,   and   podcasts   published.    Some   that   I   would   recommend,   which   include   discussion   of   the   statistical   issues,   are:
• Tortoise   podcast:
https://www.tortoisemedia.com/listen/the-slow-newscast/lucy-letby-the-expert-witness 
•      New   Yorker   article   (the   first   published   article   criticising   the   statistics   -   note   this   was   banned   in   the            UK   at   the   time): https://web.archive.org/web/20240513112618/https://www.newyorker.com/ magazine/2024/05/20/lucy-letby-was-found-guilty-of-killing-seven-babies-did-she-do-it
• Channel five episode: https://www.channel5.com/show/lucy-letby-the-new-evidence 
•      Telegraph   articles   featuring   statistical   analysis   by   John   O’Quigley   and   Peter   Elston   (note   these   are   behind   a   paywall   and   so   not   linked).
1.2 The insulin cases In   two   of   the   cases   of   attempted   murder,   Letby   was   accused   of   having   added   insulin   into   the   feed   bags   of two   premature   infants   (child   F,   August   2015   and   child   L,   April   2016).   Blood   samples   had   been   taken   from the   two   infants   and   at   the   time   and   sent   for   immunoassay   blood   tests.   The   results   of   these   tests   were:
• Child   F   -   4,657   pmol/L   insulin,   169   pmol/L   C-peptide.
• Child   L   -   1,099   pmol/L   insulin,   264   pmol/L   C-peptide.It   is   known   that   the   results   of   immunoassay   tests   are   affected   by   interference   in   the   sample   between   0.4%   and   4%   of   the   time.    This   inference   will   result   in   errors   in   the   reported   values   and   hence   false   positive   and false   negative   results   in   diagnoses   based   on   the   tests.   When   the   tests   were   taken   (including   after   receiving   the   test   results) there   was   no   suspicion   that   the   babies   had   been   attacked.    As   such,   more   accurate   follow-up tests   were   not   carried   out   because   the   babies   had   recovered.    The   unusual   results   of these   blood   tests   were   noted   by   medical   experts   involved   in   the   police   investigation   against   Letby   over   a   year   later.One   of   the   arguments   made   at   trial   was   that   the   results   from   the   immunoassay   blood   tests   were   indicative of   insulin   poisoning.   The   argument   made   was   that   the   C-peptide   value   should   be   around   5-10   times   that   of the recorded insulin   value.   In fact, both babies had insulin   levels   that   were   much   higher   than   their   C-peptide   readings   and   experts   testified   that   this   suggested   that   the   insulin   cannot   have   been   naturally   produced.
Details   of   the   arguments   made   in   court   can   be   seen   in   court   reporting   of   the   evidence.    In   particular,   the   following   two   comments   were   made:
•      Dr   John   Gibbs,   a   consultant   at   the   Countess   of   Chester   Hospital:    ‘The      [...]       C-peptide   reading      [for child   F]   should,   for   natural   insulin,   [...]   be   even   higher   [than   4,657]   in   this   context,   Dr   Gibbs   explains,   but   it   is   ‘very   low’   .   The   ratio   of   C-peptide/insulin   is   marked   as   ’0.0’,   when   it   should   be   ’5.0-10.0’   .   Dr Gibbs   says   the   [...]   c-peptide   reading   should   be   at   20,000-40,000   to   correlate   with   the   insulin   reading in   this   test.   The   doctor   says   this   insulin   result   showed   Child   F   had   been   given   a   pharmaceutical   form   of   insulin   administered,   and   he   ‘should   have   never   received   it”   .
•      An   unnamed   doctor   at   the   hospital:   ‘The   doctor   says   the   cortisol   reading   was   ’normal’,   the   insulin   at   a   reading   of   4,657   was   ”too   high   for   a   baby   who   has   a   low   blood   sugar”   .    The   doctor   says   it   would be   expected,   with   a   baby   in   low   blood   sugar,   for   insulin   to   stop   being   produced,   so   that   would   also   be   low.   The   [...]   c-peptide   reading   of ’less   than   169’ does   not   correlate   with   the   insulin   reading.    The insulin   and      [C-peptide]   readings   would   be   ’proportionate’   with   each   other.      The   doctor   says   it   was likely   insulin   was   given   as   a   drug   or   medicine,   rather   than   being   produced   by   Child   F,   to   account   for   this   insulin   reading.   ’
2 Task 
You   have   been   approached   by   the   lawyer   of   Lucy   Letby   to   give   expert   statistical   advice   on   the   case.    The lawyer   wants   you   to   produce   an   expert   witness   repor代 写Statistical Case Studies 2024/25 Semester 2Python
代做程序编程语言t   giving   your   opinion   on:
•   the   argument   made   in   the   case   that   when   no   exogenous   insulin   has   been   taken,   the   C-peptide   mea-   surement   should   be   around   5.0-10.0   times   higher   than   insulin.
• whether   there   is   an   alternative   relationship   between   insulin   and   C-peptide.
• whether   the   insulin   and   C-peptide   measurements   for   babies   F   and   L   are   unusual.Expert   witnesses   should   only   testify   in   relation   to   matters   within   their   knowledge,   so   you   must   comment   only   on   statistical   issues   in your   report.   You   should   also   stick to   commenting   on the   insulin   question   above,   and   not   on   the   wider   statistical   issues   in   the   case.
There   are   several   ways   you   could   approach   the   analysis   but   I   suggest   that   you   start   by   fitting   a   linear regression   model   with   C-peptide   as   the   response   variable,   to   study   how   C-peptide   varies   with   insulin.
The   lawyer   does   not   have   access   to   datasets   from   the   Countess   of   Chester   Hospital,   or   from   the   labs   that carry   out   the   immunoassay   tests.      They   have   given   you   a   dataset   from   a   Freedom   of   Information   request sent   to   the   Liverpool   University   Hospitals   NHS   Foundation   Trust    (https://www.whatdotheyknow.com/ request/blood_test_records_for_insulin_a.).   The data have also been   provided in csv   format.   As   part   of your task you should comment on   the   appropriateness   of this   dataset   for   answering   the   questions   that   the   lawyer   has   asked   as   well   as   detailing   any   limitations   of   your   analysis.
2.1 Format
You should submit a written report detailing your findings. Your report must contain no more than 1000 words (not including references, tables, figures and their captions). Please state the word count under the title of your report. You can structure your report however you like but I would expect to see:
•      A   short   executive   summary   at   the   start   summarising   your   key   findings,   that   can   be   understood   by   a   lawyer.
•      A   description   of the   datasets   you   have   been   given.   You   should   assume   that   the   lawyer   is   not   familiar with   the   dataset.
• Detail   on   the   methods   you   have   used   for   the   analysis.
• Detail   on   model   fit   and   the   limitations   of your   analysis.
• Your   conclusions.
You   should   also   submit   well-documented   R   code,   either   plain   or   as   markdown   so   that   your   analysis   is reproducible.The   work   must   be   completed   in   your   group   of   3,   which   you   must   have   arranged   and   registered   on   Learn.   If you   have   any   difficulties with this   or   have   not   managed to   find   yourself a   group,   please   email   me   or   speak   to me in the workshops.    The first paragraph of your report must   list   your   names   with   university   user   names.   Contributions   from   different   team   members   never   end   up   completely   equal,   but   you   should   aim   for   rough   equality,   with   team   members   each   making   sure   to   ’pull   their   weight’,   as   well   as   not   unfairly   dominating.
3 Mark Scheme There   is   no   single   correct   analysis   for   this   type   of   project,   so   you   will   not   be   marked   on   the   basis   of   how close   you   get   to   some   particular   model   answer.    The   marks   are   not   subdivided,   but   will   be   allocated   on   a combination   of statistical   approach   and justification,   interpretation   of results   in   context   and   presentation.
•      80   –   100%   A   report   that   could   be   presented   to   the   client   or   collaborator   with   little   or   no   revision.   Analysis   is   sound   so   that   conclusions   are   well-supported   statistically.       Interpretation    is   reasonably   mature.   The   project   should   demonstrate   a   clear   overview   of the   work,   without   getting   lost   in   details,   and   be   free   of all   but   minor   statistical   errors.   The   work   is   to   a   publishable   standard.
•    70-79% A   report   that   could   be   presented   to   the   client   or   collaborator   with   little   or   no   revision.   Analysis is   sound   so   that   conclusions   are   well-supported   statistically.   Interpretation   is   reasonably   mature.   The   project   should   demonstrate   a   clear overview of the work, without   getting   lost   in   details,   and   be   free   of   all   but   minor   statistical   errors.
•      60   –   69%   A   project   that   could   be   presented   after   a   round   of   revision,   but   without   having   to   re-do much   of   the   actual   analysis.    Some   flaws   in   the   analysis   or   presentation   (or   minor   flaws   in   both),   but basically   sound.   A   good   grasp   of the   statistics   and   context,   so   that   interpretation   is   reasonable.
•    50 -   59%   Major   re-working   required   before   the   project   could   be   presented,   but   containing   some   sound statistics demonstrating understanding of statistical modelling and   its   application.    Reasonable presen-   tation   and   organisation.
•   40 – 49% Major   flaws   in   analysis   and   presentation, but   demonstrating   some   understanding   of   statistics,   and   a   reasonable   attempt   to   present   the   results.
•      Fail   (below   40%) Flawed   analysis   demonstrating   little   or   no   understanding   of   statistics,   and/or   incom-   prehensible   or   very   badly   organised   presentation.

         
加QQ：99515681  WX：codinghelp  Email: 99515681@qq.com
